* cropcal

A collection of code used to download, ingest, and analyze the Crop
Calendar Dataset from the Center for Sustainability and the Global
Environment (SAGE) at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

** Dataset Description

From [[http://www.sage.wisc.edu/download/sacks/crop_calendar.html][the 
SAGE web site]]:

#+BEGIN_QUOTE 

[The Crop Calendar Dataset] is the result of digitizing and
georeferencing existing observations of crop planting and harvesting
dates. We then derived climate statistics (e.g., the average
temperature at which planting occurs in each region) by merging these
crop calendar maps with monthly climatologies from CRU.

#+END_QUOTE

The dataset is described in the following publication:

Sacks, W.J., D. Deryng, J.A. Foley, and N. Ramankutty (2010). Crop
planting dates: an analysis of global patterns. Global Ecology and
Biogeography 19, 607-620. DOI: 10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00551.x

Running 'make' within your working copy will download the above
publication and an additional README document prepared by the
dataset's authors along with the data iself.

** Codeset Description

This repository can be found [[https://github.com/nbest937/cropcal][here]] on [[https://github.com][GitHub]].

Currently this code simply downloads the dataset and its documentation
through the links provided on the SAGE web site.  Running 'make' will
download all files and extract all netCDF data files to the 'nc'
subdirectory.  Individual crops can be specified for extraction,
e.g. 'make Maize'.  See the Makefile for additional details.

This repository is an example of a Blox component.  Blox is a modular
source code management, data management and scientific workflow
concept under development at the University of Chicago's Computation
Institute.  Blox currently relies on the Git distributed version
control system and GNU Make, but could conceivably be implemented
using other source code management systems and dependency tracking
utilities.

** Copyrights

The dataset is Copyright Â© 2009 Board of Regents of the University of
Wisconsin System.

The codeset was conceived by Neil Best at the University of
Chicago's Computation Institute in support of ongoing research at the
Center for Robust Decision Making on Climate and Energy Policy
(RDECEP).    

